[Music]
you might think being alone as a
punishment but sometimes isolation
whether it's children are forced can be
the best thing for people all it takes
is a little food a little security and a
lot of a long time
let's look at three civilizations the
ancient Egyptians the Maya of
Mesoamerica and the medieval Japanese
all of them were isolated from invaders
the Egyptians had a large sea to the
north and deserts to their west and east
the Mayans lived with seas surrounding
their west north and east sides and
mountains to the south and the Japanese
had the benefit of being an island with
many mountains between would-be invaders
and communities but being alone isn't
enough these three groups had two big
things in common which made their
isolation productive food and peace in
Egypt the Nile River acted as a
superhighway allowing Egyptians to trade
their most precious commodity grain with
their Nubian neighbors to the south and
their Mediterranean neighbors to the
east trading food helped them acquire
luxuries like ivory incense gold and
metals like copper and iron the Maya of
the Yucatan Peninsula established a
great civilization with plenty of
farmland and had enough local luxuries
allowing them to completely ignore
everyone else
the medieval Japanese had plenty of
farming and fishing and keep their
bellies full and their minds open what
this food came another perk peace
because none of these civilizations had
to invade other nations to gain
resources they remained relatively
peaceful they stayed put secured by
their geographic boundaries safe from
invaders and had no need to venture out
in conquer new lands it was this
combination that made isolation not a
prison sentence but an incredible
opportunity the Egyptians created
amazing architecture like the pyramids
and the Sphinx advances in geometry and
scientific improvements like setting
broken bones and using medicinal plants
for fever they created a new system of
writing
hieroglyphs on an amazing new thing
called papyrus paper Egyptian
contentment to stay home was not shared
by their neighbors however and the
Macedonians who lacked ample farmland
ended Egyptian rule by Egyptians the
Maya built impressive pyramids and
observatories made critical advances in
math like the number zero created a new
system of writing and an amazingly
accurate calendar still used today for
some reason in the nine hundreds ad
their civilization disappeared under a
veil of mystery
the Japanese focused on themselves as
well and created a new type of religious
Buddhism called Zen they pioneered
landscaped styled architecture built
elaborate wood monasteries and develop
new forms of art they even created an
entirely new economic system called
feudalism and perhaps their most lasting
world contribution was the samurai
warrior Bushido code this strict code of
honour and ethics is still highly
revered in societies across the world
today their isolation ended when they
chose to work with others to gain new
technologies these civilizations were
not lonely and in fact contributed huge
amounts of knowledge to the world then
and now so the next time you're all by
yourself
and you've got plenty of food and water
maybe you two will come up with
something incredible
[Music]
you